Add documentation about different organization discovery options (#5474)
wso2/docs-is: en/includes/guides/organization-management/organization-discovery/index.md

# Organization discovery

> B2B applications need seamless login experiences. {{ product_name }} supports **organization discovery** to route users directly to their organizational login pages.

Author: This change seems, unnecessary shorter. Even the current sentences are short.

This guide explains available discovery types and shows how to integrate them into your applications.

---

## Available discovery methods

{{ product_name }} supports the below organization discovery methods:

| Discovery Type                    | Use Case                                                  |
|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| **Organization Name-Based**       | Direct users to their organization using a human-readable name. |

> | **Organization ID-Based**         | Route users using a unique organization identifier. Suitable for server-side integrations. |

Author: This is now updated.

| **Email Domain-Based**            | Automatically identify organizations from email domains. Ideal for corporate email addresses. |

> | **Custom Attribute-Based**        | Enable advanced discovery using custom attributes. |

Author: This is now updated.

---

## How organization discovery works

Organization discovery routes users to their organization's login page. You can bypass the **"Sign in with Single Sign-On (SSO)"** selection screen. Use one of these two methods:

### 1. Direct routing with query parameters

> Add the `fidp=OrganizationSSO` parameter along with the **organization identifier** to your authentication requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the `fidp=OrganizationSSO` parameter along with the **organization discovery parameters** to your authentication requests.
```

Author: This is now updated.

**Why use this method**: Direct users to their organization login page through the application.

### 2. Adaptive authentication script

> Use an adaptive script to automatically select the SSO authenticator based on organization parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use an conditional authentication script to automatically select the SSO authenticator based on organization parameters.
```

Author: This is now updated.

    client_id=<client_id>
    &redirect_uri=<redirect_url>
    &scope=<scopes>
    &response_type=code
    &org=<organization_name>
    &fidp=OrganizationSSO
    ```

=== "Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML)"

    ```bash
    https://{{host_name}}{{organization_path_param}}/samlsso?
    spEntityID=<app_entity_id>
    &org=<organization_name>
    &fidp=OrganizationSSO
    ```

**Example**: For an organization named `"acme-corp"`, add `org=acme-corp` to the request.

---

## Organization identifier-based discovery

Use the organization's unique ID to route users to their login page.

Add the `orgId` parameter with the organization ID to your authentication request.

=== "OpenID Connect (OIDC) Authorization"

    ```bash
    https://{{host_name}}{{organization_path_param}}/oauth2/authorize?
    client_id=<client_id>
    &redirect_uri=<redirect_url>
    &scope=<scopes>
    &response_type=code
    &orgId=<organization_id>
    &fidp=OrganizationSSO
    ```

=== "Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML)"

    ```bash
    https://{{host_name}}{{organization_path_param}}/samlsso?
    spEntityID=<app_entity_id>
    &orgId=<organization_id>
    &fidp=OrganizationSSO
    ```
---

> ## Alternative: Use adaptive authentication

Author: This is now updated.

> Instead of using the `fidp=OrganizationSSO` parameter, you can use an adaptive script to automatically route users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of using the `fidp=OrganizationSSO` parameter, you can use an conditional authentication script to automatically route users.
```

Author: This is now updated.

    executeStep(1, {
        authenticationOptions: [{
            idp: (context.request.params.orgId && !context.steps[1].idp) ? "SSO" : context.steps[1].idp
        }]
    }, {
        onSuccess: function(context) {
            Log.info("User successfully completed initial authentication with IDP: " + context.steps[1].idp);
        }
    });
};
```

**How this works**: The script checks for the `orgId` parameter and automatically selects the SSO authenticator.

**For organization names**: Change the script to check for the `org` parameter instead:

```javascript
var onLoginRequest = function(context) {
    executeStep(1, {
        authenticationOptions: [{
            idp: (context.request.params.org && !context.steps[1].idp) ? "SSO" : context.steps[1].idp
        }]
    }, {
        onSuccess: function(context) {
            Log.info("User successfully completed initial authentication with IDP: " + context.steps[1].idp);
        }
    });
};
```

---

## Email domain-based discovery

Automatically identify organizations based on user email domains. This method routes users to their organization's login page without requiring them to specify the organization name or ID.

> **How it works**: {{ product_name }} extracts the domain from the user's email address and matches it to a configured organization.

Author: This is now updated.

# Organization discovery

> In Business-to-Business (B2B) applications, delivering a seamless and personalized login experience is essential. {{ product_name }} supports several **organization discovery options** to automatically or explicitly route users to their respective organizational login pages.

Reviewer 2: expanding B2B might not be necessary.

```suggestion
In B2B applications, delivering a seamless and personalized login experience is essential. {{ product_name }} offers multiple organization discovery options to automatically or explicitly route users to their respective organizational login pages.
```
